The common feature among the control methods of ac drives is 
that there is a converter (switching power processor)
with its characteristic control loop (phase control, PWM,
etc.) and dynamics, and that there is a motor (asynchronous or
synchronous) with its static and dynamic characteristics. The
two are then combined together to develop an overall model.
Suitable feedback techniques are then employed to achieve
the control objective such as speed control, position control,
etc. In contrast to the aforementioned, the control theory
of variable structure systems (VSS) and a concept of sliding
mode control may be used on the power processor and
the motor together (as one control plant) to develop a control
strategy that can deal with switching converter and motor
nonlinearities.
In this paper, the application of sliding mode control to
permanent-magnet synchronous motors (dc brushless motors),
wound-rotor synchronous motors, and asynchronous motors is
presented. In the Appendix, the basic idea of sliding mode is 
given.
Asif Sabanovic was born in Visoko, Yugoslavia,
in August 1946. He received the B.Sc., M.Sc.,
and D.Sc. degrees in electrical engineering from
the University of Sarajevo in 1970, 1975, and 1979,
respectively.
In 1970 he joined Energoinvest-Institute for Automatic
Control and Computer Science, Sarajevo,
where he worked on the research and development
of new control systems of electric drives. He
founded the Power Electronics Laboratory at the Institute
and is now the Head of the Automatic Control
Department. He is also a part-time Professor at the University of Sarajevo.
From September 1983 to August 1985 he was Visiting Associate Professor
at the California Institute of Technology, Pasadena. His current research interests
continue to be the design of electric motor control systems, sliding
mode controls, power electronics, and robotics.
Faruk Bilalovic was born in Visoko, Yugoslavia,
on August 3, 1952. He received the B.Sc. and
M.Sc. degrees in electrical engineering from the
University of Sarajevo in 1975 and 1979, respectively.
He also received the M.Sc. degree in electrical
engineering from CalTech, Pasadena, California,
in 1986.
Since 1975 he has been with the Energoinvest-
Institute for Automatic Control and Computer Science,
Sarajevo. His current research interests include
motor control and robotics.